Docker Swarm:
  The cluster management and orchestrator features are embedded in the Docker engine are built using swamrm kit.
  Swarm kit is a seperate project which implements Docker's orchestration layer which is used directly by Docker engine.
  
  
Swarm Kit:
  A took kit for orchestrating distributed env at any scale. which includes node discovery, raft-based consensus, task scheduling and more.

Main benefits of swarm kit are :
  Distributed : Swarm kit uses Raft consesus algorithm in order to co-ordinate and doesnot rely on a single point of failure to perform decisions.
  Secure : Swarm kit uses mutual TLS for node authentication, role authorization and transport encryption.
  Simple : It doesnot need external database to operate.
  
  Swarm Overview:
    Machine runing Swarmkit can be grouped together in order to form a Swarm, coordinating tasks with each other.
    Once a machine joins, it becomes a swarm node. Nodes can be either Manager node or Worker node.
    
  Worker Node:
    Worker node is responsible for runing tasks using an exceutor. Swarm comes with a default Docker container executor.
    
  Manager Node:
    Mnager node accept specifications from the user and passing on to worker nodes.
    
  Tasks are organised in Services. A Service is a higher level abstraction that allows the user to declare the desired state of a group of taks.
  
  Some main features of Swarm kit:
    1. If a node fails, Swarm kit reschedules its tasks onto a different node.
    2. Service types:
      2.1 : Global service:
        run one task on every available node in the cluster.
      2.2 : Replicated service:
        are scaled to the desired number of replicas.
    3. Scheduling:
      3.1 : Resource awareness: 
        Swarm Kit is aware of all node resources and places tasks accordingly.
      3.2 : Constraints :
        Operator/User can limit the set of nodes where a task can run by defining the constraint.
        
        ex:
        node.id, node.hostname, node.ip, node.role, node.platform.arch, node.labels, engine.labels.
        
        
